
Description

   The path to exascale computing will challenge HPC application developers in their quest to achieve the maximum potential that the
   machines have to offer. Factors such as limited power budgets, heterogeneity, hierarchical memories, shrinking I/O bandwidths, and
   performance variability will make it increasingly difficult to create productive applications on future platforms. Tools for debugging,
   performance measurement and analysis, and tuning will be needed to overcome the architectural, system, and programming complexities
   envisioned in these exascale environments. At the same time, research and development progress for HPC tools faces equally difficult
   challenges from exascale factors. Increased emphasis on autotuning, dynamic monitoring and adaptation, heterogeneous analysis, and so on
   will require new methodologies, techniques, and engagement with application teams. This workshop will serve as a forum for HPC
   application developers, system designers, and tools researchers to discuss the requirements for exascale-ready/exascale-enabled tools and
   the roadblocks that need to be addressed.

   The workshop is the fifth in a series of SC conference workshops organized by the Virtual Institute - High Productivity Supercomputing
   (VI-HPS), an international initiative of HPC researchers and developers focused on parallel programming and performance tools for
   large-scale systems.

Important Dates

     * September 2, 2016 September 9, 2016: Paper submissions due
     * September 23, 2016: Author notification
     * October 4, 2016: Final version of papers due
     * November 13, 2016: Workshop, 13:30-17:30

Workshop format and topics

   The half-day workshop will consist of a keynote address followed by research paper presentations. Each paper submission will undergo a
   peer review process. Accepted contributions will be published in the SC workshop proceedings in cooperation with SIGHPC through the ACM
   Digital Library and IEEE Xplore.

   Workshop topics include
     * Programming tools (e.g., performance analysis, tuning, debuggers, IDEs)
     * Methodologies for performance engineering
     * Tool technologies for extreme-scale challenges (e.g., scalability, resilience, power)
     * Tool infrastructures and environments
     * Application developer experiences with programming and performance tools

Paper submission

   Papers covering original and previously unpublished research are solicited. To be considered, a manuscript should be a maximum of 8 pages
   and formatted according to the double-column IEEE format for Conference Proceedings (IEEEtran LaTeX Class (template) V1.8 packages and
   IEEEtran V1.12 BibTeX (bibliography)). Margins and font sizes should not be modified. The templates for "IEEEtran LaTeX Class (template)
   V1.8 packages and IEEEtran V1.12 BibTeX (bibliography)" can be found at the IEEE publishing website.

   All papers must be submitted through Easychair at:

   https://easychair.org/conferences/?conf=espt2016

Organizing committee

   Allen D. Malony, University of Oregon, USA
   Martin Schulz, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, USA
   Felix Wolf, TU Darmstadt, Germany
   William Jalby, Université de Versailles St-Quentin-en-Yvelines, France

Contact

   Allen D. Malony (Email malony@cs.uoregon.edu, phone +1-541-346-4407)

Program committee

   Luiz DeRose, Cray Inc., US
   Michael Gerndt, Technische Universität München, Germany
   Jeffrey K. Hollingsworth, University of Maryland, US
   William Jalby, Université de Versailles St-Quentin-en-Yvelines, France
   Andreas Knüpfer, Technische Universität Dresden, Germany
   David Lecomber, Allinea Software, US
   Allen D. Malony, University of Oregon, US
   John Mellor-Crummey, Rice University, US
   Martin Schulz, Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, US
   Sameer Shende, University of Oregon, US
   Felix Wolf, Technische Universität Darmstadt
   Brian Wylie, Jülich Supercomputing Centre

